Now that we learned F1 score,
let's introduce something a bit more general. Here's the concept.
If we have precision over here,
and recall over here,
then F1 score is somewhere around the middle,
that gives as much importance to both.
Of course if one of them is smaller,
it raises a flag but it treats them both the same.
Now let's say our model cares a bit more about precision than recall.
Then we want something more skewed towards precision.
So we'll say it's F0.5 score.
So we call that beta.
Beta is 0.5. The smaller the beta,
the more towards precision that we get.
Or if we want our model to care more about the recall than in the direction,
we pick a larger beta, say beta equals two.
So our metric is F2.
If you like formulas, here they are.
Remember that the F1 score is two times precision,
times recall, divided by precision plus recall.
So in the formula for beta, you just introduce a beta
over here that will skew your formula towards either
one or the other one depending on if beta is small or large. So let's see.
If we have the fraud detection example,
which beta should we use?
I would initially think that this needs to be a high recall model since we need to catch
all the fraud cases and it's okay if we
accidentally detect and investigate some that are not.
Something like F10.
But then maybe we're sacrificing too much precision and we accidentally sending
our customers too many notifications
about their transactions without them being fraudulent,
and they're starting to get annoyed.
So we can move a bit toward say, F2.
But then maybe we would discover that we need to focus a bit more on
recall because we really don't want to miss too many for two transactions,
so we go here to F5.
It's not an exact science.
Finding a good value of beta requires a lot of intuition of your data,
and a lot of experimentation.
Now let's test our knowledge and let's have a quiz.
So let's look at three possible models.
In the first one we are NASA and we have a model for
detecting malfunctioning parts on a spaceship.
In the second one, we have a video recommender system and we have a model
for sending users phone notifications of our new videos they may like.
In the third one we are a store,
and we have a model for sending free samples in the mail to potential clients.
Let's say one of them has an F beta score of F1,
the other one is F0.5,
and the other one is F2.
Which one is which?
Enter your answers below.